Solstice disassembly, JP32's notes.
Version 1.0, 11.02.2023.

This is "directory" or list of stuff Ive commented/explained in the disassembly,
to make it more readable and easier to find some specif parts.

This is still work in progress, and I don't have too much free time to really focus on it,
so I'll probably stop after this to focus on my Solstice hack, but if you have any questions,
feel free the PM me at romhacking.net (J^P / "profile;u=17321") or discord "JP32#4057".
But you can always contribute yourself too ;).

Progress so far:
I've documented room data completely, although I dont have time or patience to fully comment out
the stock room data in "bank_ff" so I settled on just commenting first dozen and then some unique
rooms, but with my documentation and notes you should be able to decode it easily.

Todo:
These are stuff Ive investigated, made some progress but not included yet:
-gameplay demos
-enemy/sprite code/tables/etc
-document unused stuff, pal/usa/jpn/"beta" differences(if anyone knows the "beta"'s origins or anything about me tell me (MD5 hash "96CE83D4D1B5993169C7999C1D2F0208").
-double check the staff piece check code
-and more as my notes are all over the place lol.


---


Bank_00.asm:
Bunch of initialization stuff

Points of interests:
"tbl_86D5:" palettes for story(room part)
";item stuff" - item table and code for items
";Teleporters" - table for teleporter pairs
";Credit checkpoints" - table for credits 
";Keys and detonators" - table for keys and detonators
";more detonator and key stuff" - table for more key and detonator stuff
";Enemy stuff" - enemy table and code for enemies(WIP)
";Animations/graphics for enemies" - self-explanatory
";default palettes for rooms, sprites and player" - self-explanatory
";gameplay demo" - gameplay demo stuff (WIP)
";logo palettes" - palettes for csg presents, title screen, the end screen, etc
";room sizes table" - table for room sizes
"sub_9CE4" or ";6 staff pieces check" - heres the check for what room(F3), and what exit to hide until all 6 staff pieces are obained.
"sub_9D6F" or ";5 staff pieces check" - code that checks for hidden stuff in rooms, and the 5 staff piece check in room E0


bank_01.asm:
Cut-scene text, palettes, Attribute Tables for portraits and title screen etc

Points of interests:
;text for intro&ending" - these are out of order
";ending stats text" - text for ending statics & the end fancy text
";credits text" - text for the ending credits 
";palettes for intro cutscene portraits:" - also has title screen palette(one with shadax)

bank_02.asm
Music driver stuff, code for pause screen, % calculation, rest of text..

points of interests:
";all staff pieces are collected message" - self-explanatory
";title screen credits" Title credits text&stuff
";game over text" self-explanatory
";continue screen" continue screen text
";"big picture"" -  item pickup graphics attributes and palettes
";big picture text" - text for the "big picture" screens
";pause cheat" - code etc for the cheat code in the status screen
";music driver stuff" - self-explanatory

bank_ff:
Mostly the room data

";room data" - this is where all the rooms are, for in-depth explanation see the other text files.



bank_val.inc:
Global constant values

Has list of sfx, music, sprites...